hey guys my name is J and I'm one of the
expert TOEFL teachers here at e to
language in the next videos that you see
I'm going to teach you all about TOEFL
reading I'm gonna describe all of the
different tasks to you I'm gonna teach
you a method for how to solve them
accurately and give you a chance to
practice as well this is the first
lesson let's take a look at it this is
TOEFL reading skill number one summarize
information which by the way is quite
different to all of the other tasks the
other tasks were pretty straightforward
and multiple choice type questions this
one and number 10 table are quite
different and require you to understand
it thoroughly let's get started so the
objective of this lesson is for you to
understand this question type I also
want you to learn how to answer it
accurately of course because that's what
it's all about what we're going to do in
this lesson is I'm going to describe the
task to you I'm going to teach you a
method we'll go through a question like
some guided practice then number three
I'm gonna give you the opportunity to
practice for yourself so let's start
with the task description let me
describe this task - whoa this is
something that you might see on test day
this is the passage of text that
precedes that comes before you see the
question it's quite significant what
you'll need to do on test day is take
notes you'll need to read this quite
carefully and take notes obviously you
can't just recreate this you're just
going to take notes on the main ideas
then you're going to see a question that
looks something like this you'll see a
sentence up here obviously related to
that passage of text you'll see a box
with three I don't know what you call
these three dots and down here you're
going to see six sentences the idea is
that you drag these sentences the ones
that are mentioned in the passage
text and you drag them into this box
here and some of them you will leave
behind for example okay let me go
through the method with you and show you
this in more detail so step one you read
the passage and take notes so you need
to look at this and you need to take
notes obviously not all the details just
the main ideas my notes look like this
you'll have a significant amount of time
to do this so don't worry too much about
it my notes say meteor a meteorite
impacts hazard to earth impacts can
disturb environment 65 million years ago
mass extinction Cretaceous period
dinosaurs disappeared impact caused dust
clouds to envelop the earth major impact
site at Yucatan 200 kilometers in
diameter etc etc and you go down these
are not full sentences these are notes
of the main ideas of that passage so you
have to take note it's imperative it's
impossible to do it otherwise fine step
read the first sentence of that summary
okay fine let's read it carefully says
scientists have linked the mass
extinction of the end of the Cretaceous
period with a meteorite impact on earth
let's read it again scientists have
linked the mass extinction of the end of
the Cretaceous period with a meteorite
impact on earth what does that really
mean what's the main idea of this
sentence what's the main idea well we
can kind of simplify this a meteorite
caused a mass extinction at the end of
the Cretaceous period okay so now we
know what this text is going to be about
step three we compare our notes to the
answer options we compare our notes to
the answer options let's have a look at
this let's have a look so let's read the
answer option scientists had believed
for centuries that meteorite activity
influenced evolution on earth the site
of the large meteorite impact at the end
of the Cretaceous period was identified
in 1990 there have also been large
meteorite impacts on the surface of the
Moon leaving craters like Tycho an
iridium enriched sediment layer and
impact crater in the Yucatan provide
evidence that a large meteorite struck
earth about 65 million years ago large
meteorite impacts such as the one at the
end of the Cretaceous period can
seriously affect climate ecological
niches plants and animals meteorite
impacts can be advantageous for some
species which thrive and disastrous for
other species which become extinct fine
so having read the passage and having
taken notes you should now be able to go
okay yes this one this one and this one
and not this one and not this one and
not this one for example it's a
combination of both your notes and your
memory that will allow you to say yes
that was mentioned because of you know
this note here for example okay that
will lead us to step four where we just
did we eliminated the incorrect answer
options which in fact are one two and
three and then Step five we dragged the
correct answer options into the box so
we drag these three into the box we
leave these three behind let's just read
this to make sure it makes sense it says
scientists have linked the mass
extinction of the end of the Cretaceous
period with a meteorite impact on earth
and iridium enriched sediment layer and
a large impact crater in the Yucatan
province evidence that a large meteorite
struck earth about 65 million years ago
obviously your notes are not going to be
that detailed but you should have taken
a note about the Yucatan being struck 65
million years ago for example that would
have been a critical note so it's not
going to be exactly the same when you
match your notes to the answer options
but your notes should give you enough
information along with your memory to
say okay yes these two match or there
might be one you don't have any notes
for you think okay well I'm gonna leave
that one okay cool
right let's practice this because this
is a tricky one and I apologize that
this is the first task and it's probably
one of the hardest one
I think so let's practice it here we go
this one I'll give you a shorter passage
of text please take notes on this pause
the video give yourself a minute a
minute and a half to read through this
take notes you need to understand what
this is saying you're not just you're
not just taking notes and writing to
copying words down you need to read it
you need to understand it and then take
notes you need to understand it because
your notes are only half of it your
memory will be the other half when
you're selecting those sentences okay so
read this carefully understand it and
take notes to help your understanding of
it alright have you taken notes let's
now look at the question and you're
gonna match your notes to those answer
options here we go so here's the
question here pause the video decide
which of these answer options were
actually mentioned in the passage three
of them will have will not have been
mentioned so we can eliminate those
pause the video give yourself a minute
to try to find the right answers we'll
look at them in a second
all right let's have a look at those
answers if you haven't done this yet
please go back and do it let's see let's
see let's see so the answers are these
so ok let's read it from the top a
recent study shows how smart phones can
be used to make movies of living cells
without the need for expensive equipment
live imaging this is this note here this
sentence rather live imaging is a very
important and expensive undertaking used
to research how different medicine
affects living cells during the study
traditional microscopes used for this
research were replaced with some
everyday electronics and smartphones
resulting in quality cell cultured
conditions and top quality imaging cool
so that one that ones they're fine we
drag that one we drag that one here
which leaves this one the study makes it
possible for laboratories around the
world to do the same thing cool so we
got those three and if you understood
that passage properly you could would
have been able to do it let's look at
the ones we eliminated to achieve high
resolution videos of cell life the
current most microscopes are no longer
sustainable well it just didn't say that
what about this one
microscopes used in current hospitals
and universities are not as efficient
well it just didn't say that either
researchers with minimal funding will be
able to replace their current equipment
with smartphones well it didn't say that
either it said that it can be augmented
or combined with other equipments cool
all right for TOEFL success go to e to
language comm check it out go and sign
up for a free account you'll get some
practice material if you need extra help
if you feel like you need some support
upgrade your package for tutorials live
group classes unlock the entire course
to get full access to the practice
materials and you should be good to go
on test day thanks for watching remember
to watch video two three and the rest of
them I'll see you soon